so we looked at some interesting NLP
tasks already things
speech tagging and parsing now we're
going to look at a few others let's
start with information extraction so
information extraction is the task of
reading a sentence and extracting named
entities such as people and places and
organizations and also relationships
between them for example the CEO of a
company and so on let me run it through
a specific example now suppose that you
want to build a database of companies
and how different rating agencies see
them so the first example here we have
Wells Fargo which is a major bank that
cuts PPD Inc to market perform so market
performance R rating for company this is
something very useful information for
investment people
PPD Incorporated is the name of a
company cuts is the actual action that
is taking place here so Wells Fargo is
lowering the rating of this company to
the next level down let's look at some
more examples China Southern Air
upgraded to overweight from neutral
according to HSBC so here the bank again
it's shown in red its HSBC it has
upgraded now that means change the
rating in a positive direction of a
company the company's China Southern Air
the new weighting is overweight and the
old rating is neutral so for the first
time we have the old rating so if we
look at a few more examples we'll get an
idea how this works these ratings
institutions typically a bank that
changes the rating of a company from a
rating to some other rating and you can
see that this kind of concept can be
expressed in many many different ways
you see the colors move all over the
place you can also have things like
uppercase and lowercase you can have
missing fields for example in the most
recent example here about there it cuts
ki ou are incorporated to underperform
rating we know the new rating but we
don't know the old rating and so on so
the goal of an information extraction
system would be to read sentences like
these to understand the different
players to understand the different
named entities the different ratings and
able to present this whole information
in the form of a table that can be later
used by people who understand databases
for whatever decisions that they need to
make with it so the output of an
information extraction would look like
this there is a relation that takes in
this case seven arguments a date/time
ticker like a which is the stock ticker
of the company and the company name the
source with or the source of the upgrade
or downgrade the old rating the new
rating and then the direction of the
change now the direction of the change
was not explicitly listed in the
previous sentences but it can be
inferred from the verb like cuts or
upgrade okay so another task in natural
language processing is semantics and
semantics analysis so semantics deals
with logical representations of
sentences such as first-order logic it
is also used to present inference for
example we can say that if X is the
mother of Y that means that X is a
parent of Y and semantic analysis is one
of the hottest areas of natural language
processing these days it would be very
interesting to see how far it can go in
the near future so here's a relevant
problem to semantics from Macklowe it's
called Bertrand Russell a 2014 problem
by banking you can download it from this
website and when you're done solving it
you can check for the solution the
solution of the Bertrand Russell problem
is shown here another natural language
processing task is the reading
comprehension so here's an example from
a paper by Anand at all from 2000 the
task here is to read a document such as
the one shown here it's titled Mars
Polar Lander where are you and then it
has a couple short paragraphs followed
by some reading comprehension questions
for example where on Mars was the
spacecraft supposed to touch down or
what did the Mars Global Surveyor do so
the goal of this kind of research is to
build systems that can answers questions
like this by understanding the meaning
of those paragraphs this is another
example of text understanding you have
some sort of a word puzzle those used to
here on the GRE tests many years ago so
there are four bungalows and aku the
Sark they're made for four different
materials and then you have some
constraints like mr. Scott's bungalow is
somewhere to the left of the wooden one
and the third one along is brick and so
on and so forth and then you have to
answer questions like who lives where
and what is their bungalow made for so
obviously takes some sophisticated
natural language processing to be able
to solve puzzles like this another
interesting task in natural language
processing is word sense disambiguation
as I said earlier words may have
multiple senses and when they're used in
a particular sentence you have to figure
out what sense was intended there so if
you see a sentence like the thieves took
off with 100 gold bars what does the
word bar mean it's pretty obvious to a
human that it means pieces of gold or
chunks of gold but the computer doesn't
know this before it performs word sense
disambiguation as far as its concerned
they may have stolen 100 drinking
establishments or perhaps 100 measures
of a song so the task of word sense
disambiguation is to take a word in the
sentence look at its context and
determine which of the senses in word
net organ a dictionary was meant so just
to remind you words like bar can be very
ambiguous here have an excerpt for more
net which we'll discuss in more detail
later that shows you all the different
senses of bar as a noun in addition to
the one that we just mentioned it can
also have a meaning as a legal
association it can also mean to prevent
something from happening or to blockade
or root and so on so would say this
immigration is very important for many
different other natural language tasks
for example for machine translation
because very often a word that is
ambiguous in one language may be
translated differently in a target
language so let's look at a few examples
in English the word play he is ambiguous
it can mean to play a sport such as pop
play soccer if you want to translate
this sentence in French we would have to
use all which is preposition / article
combination to indicate that the person
is playing a
sport but if you translate it
differently from playing a musical
instrument you have to use a different
form of this structure so you have to
use the preposition followed by the
article lock so every time you have an
instrument you have to use do every time
you have a sport you have to use ah
which in this case happens to be turning
to all let's look at now at the
translation of an ambiguous word wall
from English to German so in German the
basic translation of the word wall is
Vande however in the case of the Great
Wall of China the translation is more as
in Dijonnaise a shame our so we need to
know in advance that we have this
particular sense of war in English to be
able to translate the sentence of this
face properly in German even in Spanish
the word wall can be translated in many
different ways depending on whether it's
an internal war or an external wall like
the wall that separates several
buildings the next task is natural
language processing is called named
entity recognition the named entity
recognition you have a sentence such as
the one shown on the left both are
currently journalists in Argentina
played will del bosque in the final
years of the 70s in Real Madrid so here
what we want to figure out is what I've
done different named entities people
such as wolf and the Bosque del Bosque
names of organizations in this case the
soccer club Real Madrid and also
countries such as Argentina so the
output of a typical named entity
recognition system is shown on the right
it tells you that wolf is a person B -
PR means that this is the beginning of a
person the next line has a comma and the
label o which means it's something else
other so that means that wolf is a
single word person Argentina is labeled
as a location and it's again single word
del Bosque is labeled as a person and
the labels that the named entity
recognition system of science with the
individual words are B - fur for
beginning of a person I - per which
means inside a person and then since the
next label is all we know that there are
no other words
part of this person and finally we have
our Madrid which is an organization the
first word is labeled as beginning of
organization the second word is inside
organization and then we stopped if
interested in this topic in more detail
we'll cover it later in this course but
in the meantime you can look at the two
URLs below for two online demos of named
entity recognition systems which allow
you to type in entire sentences and then
they will label the output with the
different named entities involved he's
not a demo of a system called hablar a
developed at the University of Wisconsin
which is specifically used for named
entity recognition in the biological
domain you can see that it uses
different colors to indicate for example
names of genes and cells and receptors
and proteins RNA and so on this
information is extremely valuable when
you want to build a system that can
understand biomedical papers the next
task in natural language processing is
called semantic role labeling it turns
out that verbs have arguments some of
which are required and some which are
some of which are not required and those
arguments can appear in many different
orders in the sentence so the verb
accept has multiple arguments the most
important one a zero is the acceptor the
person doing the acceptance a one is the
accepted thing a two is from home the
thing was accepted a Thea is an
attribute and then you can also have
additional modifiers for modality and
for negation so the goal is to start
with the sentence like he wouldn't
accept anything of value from those he
was writing about to recognize that the
main verb here is accept and then to
identify which other words should be
connected to each of the different
arguments of the verb accept so a zero
in this case is the acceptor the word he
the thing accepted a one is anything of
value and a two or accepted from is
those he was writing about again we will
talk about semantic role labeling in
more detail later in the semester but in
the meantime you can look at an online
the University of Illinois shown here
another task in natural language
processing is core efference resolution
core reference resolution has to do with
understanding when two phrases are meant
to refer to the same person or entity
those are typically used in discourse
structures so that you avoid repetition
in the first example here you have
Barack Obama visited China period you
could have said Barack Obama met with
his Chinese counterpart but that would
be repetitive and instead you say the US
president met with his Chinese
counterpart and you mean that the u.s.
president core refers to Barack Obama
that's why I'm using the same color to
represent the two now if you want to
build a summarization system or
question-answering system you don't want
to think that Barack Obama and the US
President had different people we want
those two to be linked together so if I
asked who met with his Chinese
counterpart you would be able to say
Barack Obama so the task of conference
resolution is to identify expressions
that refer to the same entity in this
course and to link them together this
can actually be very tricky task because
in addition to pronouns which is the
most typical example for corypheus
resolution you can have noun phrases
like in the first example here at the US
president you can have even more
complicated structures for example
Cynthia went to see her aunt at the
hospital period she was scheduled for
surgery on Monday she here is a poor
noun that could confer to either Cynthia
or her aunt well you can have to use a
lot of semantics and word knowledge to
figure out that it was the aunt who was
scheduled for surgery it's very likely
that somebody who is scheduled for
surgery would go visit another person in
the hospital that would be very
counterintuitive so the goal of the
conference resolution system here would
be to look at the biggest reference for
XI and relate it back to her aunt rather
than Cynthia coreference can be in two
forms it can be anaphoric or katha
phoric let me explain what those two
words means anaphoric
means that the mention of the entity
happens first and then
another expression is used to refer back
to an entity that has been introduced
before so in the previous example she
appears after her aunt now cut off or or
cut a fork relation is when the pronoun
or the reference is introduced first
before the entity itself is it reduced
so this happens less frequently than an
offeror but it still exists and computer
systems have to understand how to deal
with it so an example of that is because
he was sick Michael stayed home on
Friday in this case Michael is the
entity he refers to it but it is used
before introducing the entity so again
those cases can be very tricky for
natural language processing systems to
deal with there are many other
interesting aspects of natural language
processing that have to be addressed if
you want to build an entire system so
for example ellipses parallelism and
under specification all go together
ellipsis is when a certain word is
missing from a sentence because it's
implied and it can be understood from
the context so when I say Chan speaks
Chinese period I don't what I really
mean is Chan speaks Chinese I don't
speak Chinese but I'm using ellipsis to
skip speak Chinese but I can use the
parallelism between the two sentences to
understand that those words are missing
we can also use parallelism in the next
example Santa gave Mary a book and
Johnny a toy so in this case we can
infer that Santa gave Johnny a toy even
though that is not explicitly said in
the sentence because of the parallel
structure so this is the end of the
second section on NLP tasks and
applications we're going to continue
with some more in the next segment